Add post for outbox design (#134)
getsentry/sentry.engineering: data/blog/designing-sentrys-cross-region-replication.md

- We wanted a solution that could reliably replicate changes eventually. Data loss should be rare, and we shouldn’t need to manually intervene to correct divergent state caused by networking or unavailability in other parts of the system.
- We wanted a solution that we could gradually integrate into the application and validate replication both in CI, and in production before relying on it for customer traffic.
- We didn’t want workloads from one customer to impact replication of another customer’s data.

Our requirements led us to looking at solutions that would provide an eventually consistent model that leveraged durable data stores.

## Scenarios where we use cross-region replication

We use cross-region replication between our [region silos, and control silo](https://develop.sentry.dev/architecture/#silo-modes). Replication is performed in both directions but for different operations.

For example, when an organization creates a new API token, that token needs to be present in both the control silo, and in the region where the organization is located.

![outline of a example scenario for replication](/images/designing-sentrys-cross-region-replication/scenario-outline.png)

> Authentication tokens are centralized in Control Silo, so that we can organization tokens, work against control silo resources, and so that ensure that all tokens are unique with database constraints. We need to replicate the organization’s token to region silo so that it can be used to authenticate requests made there. Later when the token is deleted, the user will remove it from Control Silo, and replication should update the relevant region.

Reviewer: Missing something here?

```suggestion
Authentication tokens are centralized in Control Silo, so that we can locate the organization tokens, work against control silo resources, and so ensure that all tokens are unique with database constraints. We need to replicate the organization’s token to region silo so that it can be used to authenticate requests made there. Later, when the token is deleted, the user will remove it from Control Silo, and replication should update the relevant region.
```

> We also use cross-region replication to push organization membership from the regions into Control Silo so that we can apply membership role permissions to organization resources in Control Silo (like Authentication tokens and Integrations).

Reviewer: Perhaps break this phrase up?

```suggestion
We also use cross-region replication to push organization membership from the regions into Control Silo. That allows us to apply membership role permissions to organization resources in Control Silo (like Authentication tokens and Integrations).
```

### Change Data Capture (CDC) and Kafka

Because naive Postgres replication would have resulted in over-replication, we could build an application that consumed Postgres’ streaming replication data, and converted changes into Kafka messages. A Postgres replication consumer would allow us to selectively replicate changes to only the regions that were relevant, and transform queries into relevant domain actions when creating Kafka messages.

![flowchart of the cdc design](/images/designing-sentrys-cross-region-replication/cdc-kafka.png)

CDC would provide atomic operations and we could easily backlog operations in Kafka for as long as required. Regions would use [mirror maker](https://developers.redhat.com/articles/2023/11/13/demystifying-kafka-mirrormaker-2-use-cases-and-architecture#use_cases) to replicate topics, or use a [multi-region Kafka](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/multi-dc-deployments/multiregion.html)

We decided against this approach because of the complexity. We would need to operate additional Kafka clusters, maintain and operate a WAL consumer, Kafka producers, consumers, and translation code from WAL operations into replication changes.

# Outboxes

> [Transactional Outboxes](https://microservices.io/patterns/data/transactional-outbox.html) are a distributed systems pattern that fit our use case perfectly. As the application makes changes that need to be replicated, it can save an ‘outbox’ in the same postgres transaction as the change - providing use the atomicity we wanted. In the background, a worker pulls tasks from the outbox table and runs handlers to apply the necessary replication action via RPC. With this design we would be able to provide eventual consistency with at-least-once delivery semantics.

Reviewer: is _providing use the_ intentional here?

```suggestion
[Transactional Outboxes](https://microservices.io/patterns/data/transactional-outbox.html) are a distributed systems pattern that fit our use case perfectly. As the application makes changes that need to be replicated, it can save an ‘outbox’ in the same postgres transaction as the change - providing the atomicity we wanted. In the background, a worker pulls tasks from the outbox table and runs handlers to apply the necessary replication action via RPC. With this design we would be able to provide eventual consistency with at-least-once delivery semantics.
```

Author: nope, that is a mistake.
